---
title: "Agentic Payments Introduction"
description: "The basics of Agentic Payments on Polygon"
---

# Agentic Payments Introduction

**Agentic Payments** represent a new frontier for finance and commerce on-chain:
**keyless**, **wallet-less**, and **infrastructure-agnostic**.  

They enable autonomous actors - whether humans, apps, or AI agents - to transact,
settle, and coordinate value directly across the Polygon ecosystem with minimal
friction.

Polygon is building the foundation for this agentic future by open-sourcing the
critical components: developer tools, payment facilitators, SDKs, reference
agents, and model prompts.

Our goal is to make payments as natural for agents as browsing a web page:
secure, interoperable, and composable across chains, protocols, and apps.

---

## What Are Agentic Payments

**Agentic Payments** are payments initiated and completed by autonomous software
entities - **agents** - without direct human action at every step.  

Instead of requiring a person to click "confirm transaction", an agent can
negotiate prices, sign intents, and pay on-chain in the background, using
predefined policies or earned balances.

This shift moves on-chain activity from **user-driven** to **intent-driven**.  

An agent doesn't just send tokens - it executes a purpose: subscribing to data,
paying per API call, or settling micro-invoices in real time.  

By encoding payment logic inside agents and standardizing protocols like
[x402](https://x402.dev), Polygon allows any intelligent system to become an
autonomous economic participant.

---

### Agents

In this context, an **agent** is an autonomous program that can **perceive**,
**decide**, and **act** on behalf of a user or a system.  

Agents combine reasoning models (LLMs, decision trees) with access to data,
APIs, and on-chain actions.  

They can interpret natural language commands, interact with contracts, and
coordinate with other agents—all without exposing private keys or depending on
centralized custody.

On Polygon, agents leverage a growing suite of tooling - **AgentKit**, **Model
Context Protocol (MCP)**, and **Unified APIs** - to understand their environment
and perform secure blockchain operations.  

This ecosystem makes it possible for an AI assistant, a trading bot, or a DAO
delegate to act as a true on-chain entity: context-aware, policy-bounded, and
continuously learning.

---

### Agentic Payments

**Agentic Payments** are what happens when these autonomous systems gain the
ability to move money safely and predictably.

Instead of traditional wallet interactions, payments are executed via
**intents** or **facilitated flows** such as x402.

An agent can detect that an API call costs $0.002 in USDC, confirm the
requirement, and complete the payment automatically, all in milliseconds.

Because they're keyless and infrastructure-agnostic, Agentic Payments work
across environments: from local LLMs to decentralized marketplaces.

They make microtransactions, dynamic subscriptions, and per-use economics viable
for both human-facing apps and AI agents.

This creates a new kind of economy—where attention, data, and compute can all
transact at machine speed, transparently and on-chain.